Dear Ms Angela Diapari,

Currently working at Neon – a Series C fintech with more than 9 million active customers, I am a Brazilian Product Designer and former Developer with more than six years of professional experience in banking, advertising, and technology. I have already worked in two unicorn startups built from scratch – Next Bank and C6 Holding – and one worldwide consultancy agency – R/GA Media Group.

Consultancy, advertising agencies, and startups are challenging environments that allowed me to develop myself around Product Discovery with User Research, Prototyping with Usability Testing, Motion Interactions, Usability, Visual Design, Illustration, Typography. I believe fashion is about making people feel good about themselves through a frictionless experience and an inspiring Visual Design, so working at Zalando would be the ideal next step for me.

I know what can be made in terms of technology since I also code HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Sass, React.js, and more – some of the most used front-end languages by tech companies and startups. 

In short, my previous experiences built my mindset and hard skills so I can create a lean, elegant, beautiful, consistent, and scalable design. Fast-paced, systematic, and disciplined, I know how to act in an environment that expects autonomy from the collaborator and how to deal with hectic working dynamics and tight deadlines. My background across B2B and B2C industries has taught me that a good debate, sheer determination, the ability to say no when necessary, and having the end customer in mind are the recipe for a successful product. 

Throughout my career, I was always on a chase for purpose and meaning. Design should always follow function, and – along with technology – it has an extensive role in making businesses and products transparent, accessible, and empowering. As a person, I value an honest conversation, feedback culture, and an environment that provides bottom-up ideas to prosper. Genuine innovation comes when everyone has the opportunity to put their hands on the product.

I see with thrilling lenses the opportunity to work in an international and diverse team. I have a personal dream to immigrate to Europe, especially Germany, as I already have an A2 proficiency level in the language.

I believe that I have a lot to add to a multidisciplinary and diverse team, with my history in agencies and startups, my Brazilian design background, and my grit. I thank you for the opportunity given and for reading my application material. I am excited about the position and awaiting further contact to show how my skills can convert into outcomes.

Best regards,
Joao Duduch.